feat(block-storage): migration documentation (#4131)
scaleway/docs-content: storage/block/reference-content/advantages-migrating-to-sbs.mdx

  description: Learn the key advantages of migrating your Block Storage legacy volumes and snapshots to Block Storage Low Latency.
content:
  h1: Advantages of migrating your Block Storage legacy volumes and snapshots to Block Storage Low Latency
  paragraph: Learn the key advantages of migrating your Block Storage legacy volumes and snapshots to Block Storage Low Latency.
tags: volumes block-storage 5kiops 10kiops sbs low-latency
dates:
  validation: 2025-01-03
  posted: 2025-01-03
categories:
  - storage
---

## Transitioning from the Instance API to the Block Storage API for volume and snapshot management

Scaleway is transitioning the management of all Block Storage legacy volumes and snapshots from the [Instance API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/instance/) to the [Block Storage API](https://www.scaleway.com/en/developers/api/block/). All Block Storage volumes and snapshots created via the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com) will no longer be available from the [Compute section](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/), but from the [Storage section](https://console.scaleway.com/block-storage).

> This change provides you with enhanced performance and advanced storage capabilities. If you have created volumes and snapshots via the Instance API, we **strongly recommend migrating them to the Block Storage API** to benefit from these improvements.

Reviewer: There won't be perf update when migrating API

Local volumes will remain exclusively supported by the Instance API.

## Key advantages of using the Block Storage API

By migrating your Block Storage volumes and snapshots to the Block Storage API, you take advantage of the following benefits:

> - **Low latency**: volumes managed by the Block Storage API leverage modern hardware, ensuring faster access times and smoother performance.

Reviewer: Instance API handles bssd volumes which will still be bssd volumes behind the SBS/block API

> - **Higher IOPS performance**: benefit from up to 5K IOPS (input/output operations per second) with Block Storage Low Latency volumes and 15K IOPS with higher-tier offerings. These performance improvements are ideal for applications requiring rapid data access and high-speed operations.

Reviewer: bssd volumes won't be sbs5k or sbs15k volumes when migrating API

## Differences between volumes managed by the Instance API and the Block Storage API

> Volumes created with the Instance API differ from those created with the Block Storage API in both hardware and performance characteristics:

Reviewer: It's more a storage class diff then an APi diff that explains hw/perf diff
Instance API handles only bssd volumes whereas SBS/block API handles bssd+sbs5k+sbs15k volume

### Underlying hardware

> Instance API volumes are built on **older-generation SSDs**, resulting in **slower performance and have a higher latency**, which may impact the responsiveness of applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instance API volumes are built on **older-generation SSDs**, resulting in **slower performance and a higher latency**, which may impact the responsiveness of applications.
```

Block Storage API volumes are powered by **modern NVMe (Non-Volatile Memory Express) disks**, which are optimized for **high-speed operations**. They also have **advanced hardware** which ensures faster data access and lower latency.

### Performance

Instance API volumes have a **limited performance** due to older SSD technology. They also have a **lower IOPS and slower data processing speed**.

> Block Storage API volumes benefit from e**nhanced performance with up to 15K IOPS**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Block Storage API volumes benefit from **enhanced performance with up to 15K IOPS**.
```
